![image](https://github.com/libratom/ratom-logos/raw/master/basic_variations/RATOM_Vector_Logo_v1_300px.png)

# RATOM API

[![image](https://travis-ci.org/StateArchivesOfNorthCarolina/ratom-server.svg?branch=develop)](https://travis-ci.org/StateArchivesOfNorthCarolina/ratom-server)

Below you will find basic setup and deployment instructions for the
ratom_api project. To begin you should have the following applications
installed on your local development system:

-   Python \>= 3.7
-   NodeJS \>= 10.16
-   [pip](http://www.pip-installer.org/) \>= 19
-   [virtualenv](http://www.virtualenv.org/) \>= 1.10
-   [virtualenvwrapper](http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenvwrapper)
    \>= 3.0
-   Postgres \>= 9.3
-   git \>= 1.7

## Django version

The Django version configured in this template is conservative. If you
want to use a newer version, edit `requirements/base.txt`.

## Getting Started

First clone the repository from Github and switch to the new directory:

    $ git clone git@github.com:StateArchivesOfNorthCarolina/ratom-server.git
    $ cd ratom_api

To setup your local environment you can use the quickstart make target
[setup]{.title-ref}, which will install Python dependencies (via pip)
into a virtualenv named \"ratom_api\", configure a local django settings
file, and create a database via Postgres named \"ratom_api\" with all
migrations run:

    $ make setup
    $ workon ratom_api

If you require a non-standard setup, you can walk through the manual
setup steps below making adjustments as necessary to your needs.

To setup your local environment you should create a virtualenv and
install the necessary requirements:

    # Check that you have python3.7 installed
    $ which python3.7
    $ mkvirtualenv ratom_api -p `which python3.7`
    (ratom_api)$ pip install -r requirements/dev.txt

Next, we\'ll set up our local environment variables. We use
[django-dotenv](https://github.com/jpadilla/django-dotenv) to help with
this. It reads environment variables located in a file name `.env` in
the top level directory of the project. The only variable we need to
start is `DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE`:

    (ratom_api)$ cp ratom/settings/local.example.py ratom/settings/local.py
    (ratom_api)$ echo "DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=ratom.settings.local" > .env

Create the Postgres database and run the initial migrate:

    (ratom_api)$ createdb -E UTF-8 ratom_api
    (ratom_api)$ python manage.py migrate

If you want to use [Travis](http://travis-ci.org) to test your project,
rename `project.travis.yml` to `.travis.yml`, overwriting the
`.travis.yml` that currently exists. (That one is for testing the
template itself.):

    (ratom_api)$ mv project.travis.yml .travis.yml

## Black

Run:

    $ pre-commit install

You can also use `black` to format on save. For example, configuration
for VS Code:

    {
        "settings": {
            "python.formatting.provider": "black",
            "editor.formatOnSave": true,
            "python.linting.flake8Enabled": true,
            "python.linting.mypyEnabled": true
        }
    }

## Import

A management command, `import_psts`, can be used to `.pst` files into
RATOM.

For example:

    python manage.py import_psts /Volumes/Seagate/RATOM/RevisedEDRMv1_Complete/kate_symes/* --clean

The search index can be rebuilt with:

    python manage.py search_index -f --rebuild --parallel

## Development

ðŸ¤¯

## Tests

To run the projet unit tests, use:

    make test

A full-stack test with a real Enron .pst file is skipped by default. To
enable it, run:

    TEST_ENRON_DATA_SET=true make test

HTML-based coverage reports are generated into `htmlcov/`.

## Sample Data

An API endpoint, at `/api/v1/reset-sample-data/`, will reset sample
datasets with an authenicated POST request. This URL is disabled unless
the `RATOM_SAMPLE_DATA_ENABLED` environment variable is set to `true`.
This is enabled by default on staging and in development.

To reset the project sample data using a management command, run:

    python manage.py reset_sample_data

To create a new sample dataset from an existing account in your
database, run:

    python manage.py sample_data --account="albert_meyers" --total=10 > ./api/sample_data/albert_meyers.json

Then populate additional entries in
`api.sample_data.data.SAMPLE_DATA_SETS`.

## Deployment

Deployment for this project is done by TravisCI on each merge to
`develop`. You can inspect the `.travis.yml` file to see how it\'s done,
or to update the process. It relies on the
[caktus.django-k8s](https://github.com/caktus/ansible-role-django-k8s)
Ansible role.

The frontend is deployed to a separate pod via its own repo, using the
same process.

You can also test or update the deployment locally in the `deployment/`
directory:

    pip install -r requirements/dev.txt
    cd deployment/
    ansible-galaxy install -r requirements.yaml
    ansible-playbook deploy.yaml

Note: This will deploy the image with the `:latest` tag. Normally, CI/CD
will deploy a tag with a commit sha to ensure the that the Kubernetes
`Deployment` updates the underlying pods. You can override the
`k8s_container_image_tag` on the command line, if needed, to deploy a
different image:

    ansible-playbook deploy.yaml -l caktus-ratom -e k8s_container_image_tag=my-docker-tag

You can see the available images in
[DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/govsanc/ratom-server)

# License(s)

Logos, documentation, and other non-software products of the RATOM team
are distributed under the terms of Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution.
Software developed for the RATOM project is distributed under the terms
of the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for additional details.

Copyright 2020, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

# Development Team

Developed by [Caktus Group](https://www.caktusgroup.com/) for the
Review, Appraisal, and Triage of Mail (RATOM) project.

See <https://ratom.web.unc.edu/> for RATOM project details, staff bios,
and news.
